---
slug: '/release/v2.1.0'
title: 'v2.1 2022-06-22'
sidebar_position: 6
hide_title: true
keywords: [GoFrame,Version Update,Feature Improvement,Bug Fix,Database Component,Service Registration,Load Balancing,Network Component,System Component,Encoding Support]
description: "The GoFrame v2.1 release introduces several practical business features, including improvements to the database and network components, supporting more flexible SQL condition combinations and custom hook event handling. Service registration, load balancing, and system component functionalities are enhanced. Memory usage optimization and improved service discovery logic."
---

Hello everyone, the `v2.1` release includes some business-related function features, improvements, and bug fixes. It's recommended to upgrade.

Video Introduction: [2022-06-22 GoFrame v2.1 Features & Usage Q&A](../community/社区交流/技术分享交流/5-2022-06-22%20GoFrame%20v2.1功能特性&使用答疑.md)

## New Features

1. The development tool introduces the `gen service` command, supporting automated generation of `service` interface code and implementation injection based on the `logic` layer code: [Module Specification-gen service](../docs/开发工具/代码生成-gen/模块规范-gen%20service.md)
2. Database Features:
1. Added `WhereBuilder` feature for more flexible `SQL` condition statement combinations: [ORM Query-Where Conditions](../docs/核心组件/数据库ORM/ORM链式操作/ORM链式操作-数据查询/ORM查询-Where条件.md)
2. Added `Hook` feature for custom hook event handling: [ORM Chaining Operation-Hook Feature](../docs/核心组件/数据库ORM/ORM链式操作/ORM链式操作-Hook特性.md)
3. The framework adds a `DeepCopy` feature for deep copying of types:
1. Added `gutil.Copy` method for deep copying specified content.
2. Generic types add a `Copy` method for deep copying their own content.
3. Some data types of the framework now support the deep copy feature, such as basic container types like `gvar, garray, gmap`.

## Major Improvements

### Community Components

**ORM Driver Implementation**

1. Added `drivers/clickhouse` for hooking `clickhouse` to the `goframe ORM` component.
2. Complete unit tests for `clickhouse/mssql/pgsql/sqlite/oracle` components.
3. Moved the `mysql` driver from the main library to the community module to facilitate decoupling from the main library. Therefore, from subsequent versions, developers need to manually import driver dependencies: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers)

**Registration Discovery Implementation**

1. Added `polaris` North Star service registration interface implementation: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/registry/polaris](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/registry/polaris)
2. Improved the `etcd` service registration discovery interface implementation component: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/registry/etcd](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/registry/etcd)

### Registration Discovery

1. Improved the `Service` implementation object to an interface definition and provided a default `Service` implementation for improved extensibility and usability.
2. Improved `HTTP/GRPC Client&Server` interface implementations.

### Load Balancing

1. Improved the `Node` interface definition and added the `Nodes` interface definition.
2. Fixed the load balancing issue under the `HTTP Client`.

### Network Components

1. `gclient`
1. Improved service discovery implementation logic.
2. Fixed client shutdown error causing connection pool reuse issues.
2. `ghttp`
1. Improved `Request.GetUrl` method details for `URL Schema`.
2. Parameter reception supports automatic receipt of `UploadFile` attributes.
3. Added custom UI guidance documentation for interface documentation: [Interface Documentation-Custom UI](../docs/WEB服务开发/接口文档/接口文档-自定义UI.md)
4. Changed the default external `JS CDN` dependency for interface documentation to `unpkg.com`.
5. Improved service registration implementation logic.
6. Improved internal detail implementation logic.
7. Fixed the parameter empty judgment issue.
3. `goai`
1. Improved adherence to the `OpenAPIV3` protocol implementation.
2. Supports all custom tags starting with `x-`, automatically adding them to the `OpenAPIV3` results.
3. The component moved from the `protocol` category to the `net` category, changing the `import` path.

### System Components

1. `gcfg`
1. The default file system interface implements support for the `property` file format.
2. `gcmd`
1. Parameter parsing adds `CaseSensitive` configuration, default parsing is case-insensitive, especially affecting structured parameter reception: [Command Management-Structured Parameters](../docs/核心组件/命令管理/命令管理-结构化参数.md)
2. Added cross-process link tracking feature: [Command Management-Link Tracking](../docs/核心组件/命令管理/命令管理-链路跟踪.md)
3. `glog`
1. Added a global `Handler` setting function, allowing developers to globally customize handling of all logs of the `glog` component, such as globally outputting in the `JSON` file format: [Log Component-Handler](../docs/核心组件/日志组件/日志组件-Handler.md)
2. Added the default `JSON` format `Handler` for developers to use: [Log Component-Handler](../docs/核心组件/日志组件/日志组件-Handler.md)
4. `gsession`
1. Resolved excessive memory usage issues caused by too many user accesses.
5. `gproc`
1. Added cross-process link tracking feature: [Process Management-Link Tracking](../docs/组件列表/系统相关/进程管理-gproc/进程管理-链路跟踪.md)

### Container Components

1. `garray`
1. Improved the `Unique` method performance, added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.
2. `glist`
1. Added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.
3. `gmap`
1. Added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.
4. `gset`
1. Added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.
5. `gtype`
1. Added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.
6. `gvar`
1. Added `Copy` method for deep copying the current generic object.
2. Added `DeepCopy` interface implementation.

### Database Components

1. `gdb`
1. Added `WhereBuilder` feature for more flexible `SQL` condition statement combinations: [ORM Query-Where Conditions](../docs/核心组件/数据库ORM/ORM链式操作/ORM链式操作-数据查询/ORM查询-Where条件.md)
2. Added `HOOK` feature for custom hook event handling: [ORM Chaining Operation-Hook Feature](../docs/核心组件/数据库ORM/ORM链式操作/ORM链式操作-Hook特性.md)
3. Improved the logic of data conversion processing before submitting to the underlying `driver`.
4. Moved the `mysql` driver from the main library to the community module to facilitate decoupling from the main library. Therefore, from subsequent versions, developers need to manually import driver dependencies: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers)

### Encoding Components

1. `gproperty`
1. Added `gproperty` component for parsing `Java Property` format files.
2. `gjson`
1. Added support for encoding, decoding, and manipulating `property` file format data: [General Encoding-gjson](../docs/组件列表/编码解码/通用编解码-gjson/通用编解码-gjson.md)
2. Fixed the issue of precision loss when reading large integers.

### Text Processing

1. `gstr`
1. Improved `WordWrap` method to be more friendly with `Unicode`, especially Chinese line breaks.
2. Fixed the issue where `RepliceI` ignoring case string replacement in certain scenarios.

### Error Handling

1. `gerror`
1. Added `Unwrap` method (same as `Next` method) to support the new `Golang` version `Unwrap` error interface.
2. Added `Equal` method for comparing whether two errors are equal: [Error Handling-Error Comparison](../docs/核心组件/错误处理/错误处理-错误比较.md)
3. Added `Is` method to support the new `Golang` version `Is` error interface: [Error Handling-Error Comparison](../docs/核心组件/错误处理/错误处理-错误比较.md)

### Utility Methods

1. `gconv`
1. Removed support for octal strings when converting integers.
2. Improved internal implementation logic for readability and maintainability.
2. `gutil`
1. Added `gutil.Copy` method for deep copying specified content.
2. Improved `gutil.Dump` method.

## Development Tools

Compared to the stable code components of the main library, CLI development tools have some incompatible updates in recent versions. Please pay attention to release records during upgrades; details are available in the source code adjustments.

1. Improved `build` command, supporting specifying the generation directory of `pack` code files, with some parameter adjustments.
2. Improved `docker` command, supporting multiple `docker tag` renaming and automatic repository pushing.
3. Improved `gen dao` command, supporting custom `dao/do/entity` code generation directory, no longer forced to generate in the `service/internal` directory: [Data Specification-gen dao](../docs/开发工具/代码生成-gen/数据规范-gen%20dao.md)
4. Added `gen service` command, supporting automated generation of `service` interface code based on `logic` layer code: [Module Specification-gen service](../docs/开发工具/代码生成-gen/模块规范-gen%20service.md)
5. Fixed issues with the `run` command's custom program startup parameters, `gofmt/goimports` program path containing spaces.

## Incompatibilities

1. Moved the `mysql` driver from the main library to the community module to facilitate decoupling from the main library. Therefore, from subsequent versions, developers need to manually import driver dependencies: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers)
2. The `ghttp.Response.WriteJson/Xml` methods no longer return `error`. Adjust according to the compilation error.
3. The `goai` component moved from the `protocol` category to the `net` category, changing the `import` path. Adjust according to the compilation error.
4. Database `ORM` operations with `gtime.Time` type parameters will automatically convert them to `time.Time` type before submission to the underlying database `driver` to solve the precision loss issue. This means that `gtime.Time` type parameters are also affected by the database configuration's timezone parameters. For details, see: [ORM Timezone Handling](../docs/核心组件/数据库ORM/ORM时区处理.md)