---
slug: '/release/v2.2.0'
title: 'v2.2 2022-10-11'
sidebar_position: 5
hide_title: true
keywords: [GoFrame, GoFrame Framework, v2.2.0, validation component, database component, Dameng database, Apollo, Polaris, Kubernetes ConfigMap, open source]
description: "GoFrame framework v2.2.0 version released, refactoring the validation component and improving the database component interface design, supporting Dameng database, and adding multiple configuration center implementations. Thanks to the support of over 44 code contributors, the GoFrame framework becomes more powerful and flexible."
---

👋 Hi, friends! The `GoFrame` framework `v2.2.0` version is officially released today!

The main highlights of this version are:

- Refactoring and improving the validation component most frequently used by developers, allowing community developers to easily develop and maintain built-in validation rules. Some commonly used validation rules have been expanded, making the component's built-in rules more robust and powerful.
- Reconstructed the design of the database component interface, enabling community developers to more easily add a new type of database `driver`. Currently, the framework provides implementations for `9` types of database `drivers` through community components, meeting the needs of most business projects. Particularly, this version adds support for the domestic Dameng database. In the future, we hope community developers can provide more `driver` implementations for domestic databases and contribute them to the open-source community.
- Richness of community components, with this release mainly adding `3` types of configuration center interface implementations, supporting `Apollo/Polaris/Kubernetes ConfigMap.` The `GoFrame` framework adopts a modular, low-coupling design, with components divided into the core library and community components. The core library provides core, general, lightweight basic components, while community components are decoupled, standalone component packages, enhancing the framework's capabilities while ensuring the core library remains lightweight and universal.
- The version's code contributors exceed `44`, with a total of `107` contributors to the framework. Thank you all for your efforts and contributions to the community! 💖

Github ChangeLog: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/releases/tag/v2.2.0](https://github.com/gogf/gf/releases/tag/v2.2.0)

## New Features

1. Refactored the built-in validation rules manager of the validation component, adding and supporting `59` common built-in validation rules: [Data Validation - Validation Rules](../docs/core_components/data_validation/validation_rules.md)
2. Added the community component `contrib/config/kubecm`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on `kubernetes configmap`: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/kubecm](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/kubecm)
3. Added the community component `contrib/config/apollo`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on the `apollo` configuration center: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/apollo](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/apollo)
4. Added the community component `contrib/config/polaris`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on the `polaris` configuration center: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/polaris](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/polaris)
5. Added `contrib/drivers/dm` support for the **domestic Dameng database**: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers)

## Major Improvements

### Community Components

#### ORM Driver Implementation

1. Improved support for more `pgsql` built-in data types in the `contrib/drivers/pgsql` ORM component level.
2. Improved support for the `LastInsertId` feature during write operations in `contrib/drivers/pgsql`.
3. Improved support for the `decimal.Decimal` data type in `contrib/drivers/clickhouse`.
4. Added `contrib/drivers/dm` support for the **domestic Dameng database**: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/drivers)

#### Registration and Discovery Components

1. Improved the `contrib/registry/etcd` implementation by changing the log object to an interface property, allowing external registration of custom log objects.

#### Configuration Components

1. Added the community component `contrib/config/kubecm`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on `kubernetes configmap`: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/kubecm](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/kubecm)
2. Added the community component `contrib/config/apollo`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on the `apollo` configuration center: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/apollo](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/apollo)
3. Added the community component `contrib/config/polaris`, implementing a configuration component `Adapter` based on the `polaris` configuration center: [https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/polaris](https://github.com/gogf/gf/tree/master/contrib/config/polaris)

### Database ORM

1. Unified the single-line string configuration management format under different database types, while supporting the specific configuration format of existing different database types: [ORM Usage Configuration](../docs/core_components/database_orm/orm_usage_configuration/orm_usage_configuration.md)
2. Improved interface design and simplified the `driver` implementation logic, making it easier to add more database `driver` support in the future.
3. Added the `ToSQL` method for generating debug-friendly `SQL` statements from ORM operations without actually executing the `SQL`.
4. Added the `CatchSQL` method for obtaining the list of `SQL` statements executed internally through a closure method.
5. Deprecated the `GetStruct/GetStructs` methods of the `Core` object, unifying them into the `Scan` method operation for improved usability.
6. The database object uses a log object as an interface property, allowing external registration of custom log objects.
7. Added `Extra` and `Protocol` configurations for setting additional configuration parameters and connection protocols, default parsing via `Link` configuration.
8. Removed the `Filtered` interface for a default implementation to simplify complexity and improve usability.
9. Added `ConvertValueForLocal` and `CheckLocalTypeForField` interfaces for custom data type conversion and data type retrieval, with default implementations.
10. Added the `ClearTableFields` method for cleaning the data structure cache of specific data tables: [ORM Advanced Features - Field Mapping](../docs/core_components/database_orm/orm_advanced_features/orm_advanced_features-field_mapping.md)
11. Added the `ClearTableFieldsAll` method for cleaning all data structure caches of all current database object tables: [ORM Advanced Features - Field Mapping](../docs/core_components/database_orm/orm_advanced_features/orm_advanced_features-field_mapping.md)
12. Added the `ClearCache` method for clearing all query caches of specific data tables: [ORM Chain Operation - Query Cache](../docs/core_components/database_orm/orm_chain_operation/orm_chain_operation-query_cache.md)
13. Added the `ClearCacheAll` method for clearing all query caches of all current database objects: [ORM Chain Operation - Query Cache](../docs/core_components/database_orm/orm_chain_operation/orm_chain_operation-query_cache.md)
14. Other improvements.

### Encode and Decode Components

1. `gcompress`
   1. Added the `GzipPathWriter` method for compressing files under a specific path to a specified `io.Writer`.
   2. Added `ZipPathContent` method for using the `zip` algorithm to package and compress files/directories and return byte content.
2. `gjson`
   1. Adjusted `ContentTypeJson` and other string parameters to the `ContentType` type.

### Error Handling

1. Added command line parameter `--gf.gerror.brief` and `GF_GERROR_BRIEF` environment variable switch to control whether to filter framework stacks when printing error stacks: [Error Handling - Other Features](../docs/core_components/error_handling/error_handling-other_features.md)
2. Other detail improvements.

### Network Components

1. `ghttp`
   1. Added the commonly used middleware `MiddlewareJsonBody` to check whether the request `Body` is in `JSON` format.
   2. Added the `GetListenedAddress` method to obtain the listening address allocated by the system when the `HTTP Server` listens on the specified `:0` port.
   3. Changed return HTTP status code to `500` when server error occurs.
2. `gtcp`
   1. Added `GetListenedAddress/GetListenedPort` methods to obtain the listening address/port allocated by the system when the `TCP Server` listens on the specified `:0` port.
3. `gudp`
   1. Added `GetListenedAddress/GetListenedPort` methods to obtain the listening address/port allocated by the system when the `UDP Server` listens on the specified `:0` port.
4. `goai`
   1. Supports properties defined by embedded structures when generating interface documentation.
   2. Removed duplicate parameter descriptions in the interface documentation, especially when the same parameters exist in `URL` and `Body`.
5. `gtrace`
   1. Improved the error prompt of the `WithTraceID` method to more explicit information.
   2. Added the `WithUUID` method to convert standard `UUID` to `OpenTelemetry`'s `TraceID`.

### System Components

1. `gcfg`
   1. Adjusted the method definition of the `Available` interface by making the `resource` parameter optional.
2. `gcron`
   1. Added time difference calculation logic for delayed scheduled tasks to minimize the impact on scheduled tasks.
3. `gctx`
   1. Added cross-process link tracking support.
   2. Added `GetInitCtx/SetInitCtx` methods for `context` retrieval and setting during execution of the `main` package and package `init`.
4. `glog`
   1. Added `ILogger` interface definition for decoupling during cross-component use of the logging component.
   2. Other detail improvements.
5. `gres`
   1. The resource `File` object added an `Export` method to export the resources associated with this object to a specified disk path.
6. `gstructs`
   1. Improved `RecursiveOption` from `int` type to custom type and adjusted the method parameter definitions accordingly.

### Text Processing

1. Added the `gstr.IsGNUVersion` method to determine whether a given string meets the `GNU` version rule.

### Utility Methods

1. `gconv`
   1. Improved `int64/uint64` conversion support for `NaN` special strings.
2. `gutil`
   1. Added `GetOrDefaultStr/GetOrDefaultAny` methods for convenient handling of default values and optional parameters.
3. `gvalid`
   1. Refactored the built-in validation rules manager, making it very easy to add a built-in validation.
   2. Added and supported `59` commonly used built-in validation rules: [Data Validation - Validation Rules](../docs/core_components/data_validation/validation_rules.md)

## Bug Fixes

1. Fixed the `panic` issue in `garray/gmap/gset/glist/gtype/gvar` with `DeepCopy` when the container object is `nil`.
2. Fixed the `panic` issue in `gtime` with `DeepCopy` when the object is `nil`.
3. Fixed the issue of multiple sorting conditions being overridden in the `Group` method of database ORM chain operations.
4. Fixed the issue of duplicate output of content when returning in `JSON` format string in `HTTP Server`.
5. Fixed the array access out-of-bounds issue caused by logical judgment in the `gstr.Nl2Br` method in some scenarios.
6. Fixed the error print issue when querying data table field information with an empty table name.
7. Fixed the issue of receiving parameters of `Req` object properties of `*gjson.Json` type.

## Development Tools

1. Improved the `gen dao` command, adding the `clear` parameter for automatically cleaning up local data model Go files that do not exist in the target database: [Data Specification - gen dao](../docs/development_tools/code_generation-gen/data_specification-gen_dao.md)
2. Improved the `gen service` command: [Module Specification - gen service](../docs/development_tools/code_generation-gen/module_specification-gen_service.md)
   1. Integrated interfaces generated by struct objects based on business modules.
   2. Added the `clear` parameter for automatically cleaning up code and files in `logic` that do not correspond to interfaces.
   3. Other detail improvements.
3. Improved the `run` command, adding custom program runtime parameters.