---
slug: '/docs/design/tracing'
title: 'OpenTelemetry Tracing'
sidebar_position: 4
hide_title: true
keywords: [GoFrame, Full Link Tracing, OpenTelemetry, Observability, OTEL, Golang, Link Transmission, Log Support, Framework, Third-party Components]
description: "Link tracing is one of the key observability metrics, and the GoFrame framework excels in supporting the OpenTelemetry standard. This article explores the challenges of link tracing in project practices and how to achieve full link tracing using the GoFrame framework, ensuring standard implementation and log support. The framework's unified components and standard detection tools help enhance the stability of business projects."
---

Observability is important, and there is a relatively good `OpenTelemetry` standard available. Various third-party components and vendors following this standard library will make exposing and integrating observability data much simpler. Today, we will talk about link tracing, a crucial metric of observability.
:::tip
The `GoFrame` framework is highly forward-looking. It began to continuously focus on the `OpenTelemetry` standard during its draft phase and started supporting it when the `OTEL` standard released an `alpha` version. Currently, the `Golang` implementation of `OTEL` is stable. `GoFrame` is among the best frameworks supporting the `OTEL` standard and its implementation, implicitly providing link tracing features. Observability is also a key focus of the framework's future developments.
:::
## I. Pain Points in Project Practices

In project practices, implementing link tracing often encounters the following common pain points.

### 1. Components do not strictly follow the standard

Even though there is an `OTEL` standard, third-party components may not adhere to it strictly. For instance, the logging and `ORM` components might not strictly enforce the passing of `ctx` context variables.

### 2. Unorganized Third-party Components

Numerous third-party components are pieced together in business projects, some of which do not support link tracing, let alone the `OTEL` standard. For example, common components such as command management, configuration management, cache management, data validation, scheduling tasks, etc., do not provide the `ctx` context variable transmission. Link information is lost when components used do not support link transmission.

### 3. Business Logic Easily Loses Links

In business projects, link tracing lacks detection mechanisms, which means it can easily be lost unintentionally during operation, such as by creating a new `ctx` or passing a `nil` `ctx`. When strategic design encounters difficulty in tactical execution, locating issues becomes a significant challenge, especially in `toB` businesses with time-sensitive support tickets.

## II. Full Link Tracing in Framework

### 1. Unified Framework

As `GoFrame` is a fully-engineered foundational framework providing the general core components needed for projects, it facilitates the unified realization of link tracing standards across foundational components effortlessly.

### 2. Standard Implementation

Support for the `ctx` context variable is increased across the framework's core components, rigorously following the `OTEL` standard to ensure smooth standard implementation.

### 3. Log Support

In engineering practices, logging is a critical component for link tracing. In most business scenarios, tracing and logging contents are required to diagnose and locate specific problems. The logging components of the `GoFrame` framework also support and strictly follow the `OTEL` standard. Hence, using the framework's logging components will automatically log link-related information.

### 4. Standard Detection Tool

The framework provides engineering standards detection functionality via development tools, automatically identifying link loss issues in business projects, further promoting the `OTEL` standard's implementation and ensuring project quality.

### 5. Support for Link Transmission

Link transmission also requires unified components. The most common protocols currently are `HTTP/GRPC`. Thus, the framework also provides `HTTP Client/Server` and `GRPC Client/Server` components to ensure link transmission. To enhance usability and ease of integration, complex underlying function details are abstracted, and this link transmission is **implicitly implemented** at the underlying level, making it completely transparent to the user.