---
slug: '/docs/core/gi18n-config'
title: 'I18N Internationalization - Configuration Management'
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
keywords: [I18N Internationalization, Configuration Management, GoFrame Framework, File Format, Internationalization Component, Configuration File, Directory Structure, Resource Manager, Intelligent Recognition, Language Code]
description: "The I18N Internationalization component is one of the core components of the GoFrame framework, supporting multiple configuration file formats such as xml, ini, yaml, toml, etc., and compatible with multiple directory structures and file formats. Developers can achieve multilingual support through configuration. The system automatically recognizes language files and supports custom path settings. It is recommended to use standardized international language codes for file naming to ensure program multilingual compatibility."
---

As one of the core components of the framework, inheriting the consistent convenience design philosophy of `goframe`, the configuration management of the `I18N` internationalization component is very simple.

## File Formats

The `gi18n` internationalization component supports five common configuration file formats: `xml/ini/yaml/toml/json/properties` (for a more detailed list of file supports, please refer to the configuration management section: [Configuration Management](../配置管理/配置管理.md)). Similarly, like the configuration management module, the framework recommends using the `toml` file format.

## Reading Path

By default, `gi18n` will automatically look for and read the following directories under the source root directory of the current project (or the current `PWD` run directory):

- `manifest/i18n`
- `i18n`

The found directory is used as the storage directory for international translation files by default. Developers can also customize the storage directory path of `i18n` files through the `SetPath` method.

## File Storage

In the `i18n` directory, you can directly name files according to internationalization names such as `en.toml`/`ja.toml`/`zh-CN.toml`; you can also give a directory with the internationalization name and freely customize configuration files under that directory, such as `en/editor.toml`/`en/user.toml`, `zh-CN/editor.toml`/`zh-CN/user.toml`. You can manage with pure file management or add an additional directory level, and `gi18n` can intelligently recognize and load.
:::tip
Internationalized file/directory names can be defined and maintained by developers, primarily for settings and use in the program. It is recommended to name them according to standardized international regional language codes. For more details, refer to WIKI: [https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO\_639-1](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1)
:::
For example, the following `i18n` directory structure and file format are supported.

**Distinguish different languages through separate `i18n` files**

```
└── i18n
    ├── en.toml
    ├── ja.toml
    ├── ru.toml
    ├── zh-CN.toml
    └── zh-TW.toml
```

**Distinguish different languages through different directory names**

```
└── i18n
    ├── en
    │   ├── hello.toml
    │   └── world.toml
    ├── ja
    │   ├── hello.yaml
    │   └── world.yaml
    ├── ru
    │   ├── hello.ini
    │   └── world.ini
    ├── zh-CN
    │   ├── hello.json
    │   └── world.json
    └── zh-TW
        ├── hello.xml
        └── world.xml
```

**Different languages can have different file formats**

```
└── i18n
    ├── en.toml
    ├── ja.yaml
    ├── ru.ini
    ├── zh-CN.json
    └── zh-TW.xml
```

## Resource Manager

`gi18n` supports the resource manager by default (for more details, refer to the section: [Resource Management](../资源管理/资源管理.md)). By default, it will retrieve the `manifest/i18n` and `i18n` directories from the `gres` configuration manager, or the `i18n` directory path set by the developer.