---
slug: '/docs/core/glog'
title: 'Logging'
sidebar_position: 4
hide_title: true
keywords: [glog, log management, high performance, GoFrame, log component, debug management, log level, chaining operations, rotation splitting, singleton pattern]
description: "glog is the core log management module of the GoFrame framework, providing high-performance log management features. It supports file output, log levels, log categorization, and rich debugging and call-tracing features. Create custom Logger objects through glog.New or use the default methods to print logs. Notable features of the glog component include simplicity, support for color printing, asynchronous output, chaining operations, and custom log handling."
---

`glog` is a universal high-performance log management module that provides powerful and easy-to-use log management functions and is one of the core components of the `GoFrame` development framework.

## Introduction

**Usage:**

```go
import "github.com/gogf/gf/v2/os/glog"
```

**API Documentation:**

[https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/gogf/gf/v2/os/glog](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/gogf/gf/v2/os/glog)

**Brief Description:**

1. The `glog` module has a fixed log file name format `*.log`, using `.log` as the fixed log file name suffix.
2. `glog` supports file output, log levels, log categorization, debug management, call tracing, chaining operations, rotation splitting, and many more rich features.
3. You can use the `glog.New` method to create `glog.Logger` objects for custom log printing, but it is recommended to use the default package methods provided by `glog` to print logs.
4. When using package methods to modify module configuration, note that any `glog.Set*` setting methods will take effect **globally**.
5. The default time format for log content is `time [level] content newline`, where `time` is accurate to the millisecond level, `level` is optionally output, `content` is the parameter input of the calling side, and `newline` is optionally output (some methods automatically add a newline character to the log content). Example log content: `2018-10-10 12:00:01.568 [ERRO] An error occurred`.
6. `Print*/Debug*/Info*` methods output log content to the standard output (`stdout`), and to prevent the mixing of logs, `Notice*/Warning*/Error*/Critical*/Panic*/Fatal*` methods also output log content to the standard output (`stdout`).
7. The `Panic*` methods will trigger a `panic` error method after outputting log information.
8. The `Fatal*` methods will stop the process running after outputting log information and return a process status code of `1` (the normal program exit status code is `0`).

## Features

The `glog` component has the following notable features:

- Easy to use, powerful functionality
- Supports configuration management with a unified configuration component
- Supports log levels
- Supports color printing
- Supports chaining operations
- Supports specifying output log files/directories
- Supports tracing
- Supports asynchronous output
- Supports stack printing
- Supports debug information switch
- Supports custom `Writer` output interface
- Supports custom log `Handler` processing
- Supports custom log `CtxKeys` keys
- Supports `JSON` format printing
- Supports `Flags` feature
- Supports `Rotate` rotation splitting feature

## Singleton Object

The log component supports the singleton pattern, using `g.Log(singleton name)` to obtain different singleton log management objects. The purpose of providing singleton objects is to allow different log management objects to be used for different business scenarios. It is recommended to use the `g.Log()` method to obtain singleton objects for logging operations. This method will automatically read the configuration file and initialize the singleton object, and this initialization operation will only be executed once.

## Differences between `glog.Print` and `g.Log().Print`

- `glog` is the package name of the log component, and `g.Log()` is a singleton object of a log component.
- The `g.Log()` singleton object is maintained through the object management component `g` package. During object initialization, it will automatically read the log configuration. It is easy to use, and in most cases, it is recommended to use this method to use the log component.
- `glog` is used in the form of an independent component, and by default, it directly outputs logs to the terminal. You can also set global configuration through configuration management methods or create independent log objects using `New`.

:::tip
**User**: Why are there two ways to print logs? Which method should I use?

**Answer**:

Since each component of the framework is **decoupled**, the framework **can be used as an independent tool library**. For example, if the project only needs to use the log component, you can directly use the methods of the `glog` package, without introducing other components. However, in project engineering use, the use of the tool library may be more cumbersome, often involving configuration and component initialization (in most cases, this will lead to secondary encapsulation). Therefore, the framework also provides a **coupled package** called the `g` package. This package loads some commonly used components by default. `g.Log()` is one of the log components, which will automatically read and initialize the configuration object according to engineering specifications, quickly initialize the log object and achieve singleton management, greatly simplifying the use of logs under engineering. For more introductions, please refer to: [Objects](../对象管理.md)
:::

## Documents

import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

<DocCardList />