---
slug: '/quick/install'
title: 'Installation'
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 1
keywords: [GoFrame, GoFrame Framework, Install GoFrame, Modular Framework, Low Coupling Design, Web Server API Development, Go Language Environment, Project Framework, Basic Components, HTTP Server]
description: "Quick start guide for the GoFrame framework. GoFrame is a modular, low coupling design development framework that includes common basic components and development tools. It's suitable for complete business project frameworks and independent component libraries. The content covers downloading and installing GoFrame, running basic operations, and introducing how to develop simple Web Server API applications."
---

Hello everyone, welcome to the quick start chapter of the `GoFrame` framework! Because `GoFrame` is a modular, low coupling design development framework that includes common basic components and development tools, it can be used either as a complete business project framework or as an independent component library.

In this chapter, we start from downloading, installing, and using the framework to guiding you in completing a relatively complete `Web Server` API development.

:::info
If you are not ready for the `Go` language development environment, it is recommended that you first refer to the environment installation documentation: [Environment Preparation](../../docs/其他资料/准备工作/准备工作.md) to understand some basic `Go` language knowledge before proceeding to the next step.

If you encounter any problems in any chapter of the quick start, feel free to leave a comment 💬, and we will try our best to provide you with an answer as soon as possible 🌟🌟.
:::

## Limitations

To ensure the stability and security of the framework, the minimum required base version of the `Go` language for the `GoFrame` framework is usually 1 to 3 versions lower than the latest `Go` language version.

Minimum `Go` version required by the current latest framework version:
```bash
golang version >= 1.20
```

## Installation
You can install the latest version of the framework in the following way:
```bash
go get -u -v github.com/gogf/gf/v2
```

Typically, include and use the latest version of `GoFrame` in the project's `go.mod`:

```bash
require github.com/gogf/gf/v2 latest
```

## Running

Let's try running the following code:
```go title="main.go"
package main

import (
    "fmt"

    "github.com/gogf/gf/v2"
)

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello GF:", gf.VERSION)
}
```
This simple code example prints the currently introduced `GoFrame` framework version. Execute it with the following command:
```bash
go run main.go
```
You will see in the terminal:
```bash
Hello GF: v2.7.4
```

Congratulations! This means you have successfully referenced `GoFrame` in the current project.

Next, we will use `GoFrame` to develop a simple `HTTP Server` service.