---
slug: '/docs/core/gcmd-intro'
title: 'Command - Concepts'
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
keywords: [GoFrame, GoFrame Framework, Command Line Arguments, Option Management, Arguments and Options, Command Line Parsing, gcmd Component, Command Line Optimization, Option Positioning, gf Command]
description: "Basic concepts of command line arguments and options in the GoFrame framework, discussing the definition and distinction of parameters and options and how they are represented in the command line. It explains in detail the parsing rules of options and parameters, including the use of the equal sign to connect options and data. Also provides implementation details and usage examples of the gcmd component in GoFrame to help users better manage command line inputs."
---

## Basic Concepts

### Argument

Data passed sequentially in the program command line without name identifiers is called an Argument. The input of arguments is sequential.

### Option

Additional input that controls the program logic and has a name identifier is called Options. Option names are prefixed with `-` or `--`. Options are unordered and can be placed in any position in the command line. Options may or may not have associated data. In other similar third-party functional components, options work similarly to Flags.

Additionally, following the traditional command line management practice, options can have shorthand aliases to simplify command line argument input. Shorthand aliases are often set as a single letter.

## Option Positioning and `=` Sign

The `gcmd` component supports options being placed anywhere in the command line, meaning the following command line option inputs are essentially the same:

```bash
gf build main.go -a amd64 -o linux -n app -yes
gf -a amd64 -o linux build main.go -yes -n app
gf -yes -n app build -o linux -a amd64 main.go
```

In these examples,

- `gf` / `build` / `main.go` are arguments with indices `0`, `1`, `2` respectively; since arguments are ordered, changing the order in the command line does not change the order of these three.
- `a` / `o` / `n` are options with data. Since the order is irrelevant, data is retrieved by option name, hence they can be placed freely.
- `yes` is an option without data and can also be placed freely.

Options and their data can be connected with a space or an `=` sign, like:

```bash
gf build main.go -a=amd64 -o=linux -n=app -yes
```

## Default Parsing Rules

The `gcmd` module provides several package methods to obtain default command line parsing rules. By default, it will automatically recognize arguments and options.

### Situations with the `=` Sign in the Command Line

```bash
gf build main.go -a=amd64 -o=linux -n=app -yes
```

By default,

- `gf` / `build` / `main.go` are arguments, with indices `0`, `1`, `2`.
- `a` / `o` / `n` / `yes` will be parsed as options, with `yes` being an option without data.

### Not Using `=` Sign to Connect Option Parameters

```bash
gf build main.go -a amd64 -o linux -n app -yes
```

By default,

- `gf` / `build` / `main.go` are arguments, with indices `0`, `1`, `2`.
- `a` / `o` / `n` / `yes` will be parsed as options, with `yes` being an option without data.