---
title: '3.1. Preliminary Instructions'
hide_title: true
slug: '/course/starbook/session-overview'
keywords: [GoFrame, User Session Management, JWT, HTTP Stateless Protocol, Cookie, Json Web Token, golang-jwt, User Login, Authentication, Local Storage]
description: "We need to implement user session management functions, including login and user information retrieval. JWT is a modern solution for user authentication, transmitted through HTTP headers, not relying on Cookies and supporting cross-domain. JWT consists of Header, Payload, and Signature and is widely used in frontend-backend separation projects."
---
In this chapter, we need to complete the user session management functions:
- Login;
- Retrieve user information.

## Introduction to JWT
---
`HTTP` is a stateless protocol, meaning every request is independent with no contextual relationship. This requires a mechanism to preserve user state information, and `Cookie` is one of such solutions. `Cookies` are small pieces of data stored in the user's browser that can be sent to the server in subsequent requests to maintain session state. However, `Cookies` have some limitations, such as cross-domain issues and security concerns. In contrast, `JWT` is a more modern solution that can be transmitted through the `HTTP` header without relying on `Cookies` and offers better cross-domain support and security.

`JWT`, or `Json Web Token`, appears as a string of unordered characters. It consists of three parts: Header, Payload, and Signature.

In projects with frontend-backend separation, after a user logs in, the server generates a `JWT` and returns it. The client saves it independently, for example, in the browser's local storage `Local Storage`. In subsequent requests, it is typically included in the `Authorization` field of the `Header` to complete user authentication.

## Install golang-jwt
---
Generating and verifying `JWT` requires complex encryption and decryption logic, which can be cumbersome to write yourself. Fortunately, others have already created this tool, and you can directly install and use it.

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5
```